>> Hello and welcome to
the Haskell Weekly podcast.
This is a show about Haskell, a purely
functional programming language.
I'm your host, Taylor Fausak.
I'm the Director of Software
Engineering at ACI Learning.
And with me today is Cameron Gera,
one of the engineers on my team.
Thanks for joining me today, Cam.
>> Thanks for having me
Taylor, I'm looking forward to
diving into our topic today.
I think it'll be a fun show.
Our last podcast was on an interview,
so  back to getting to some of the
cool work we're doing here at ITProTV.
>> I'm excited to
dive into this as well.
We're going to be talking about
something that I wrote, so
naturally I'm excited about it.
So I guess I'll give a quick intro
of what we'll be talking about.
I wrote a library that is a GHC
plugin and I called it Evoke.
And what it does is derive type
class instances without using
Template Haskell or generics.
So that's what we're going
to be talking about today.
>> Woo-hoo!
Yeah, we had a lot of different reasons
we needed this and had interest in this.
And so thank you Taylor, for taking
it on as kind of a pet project.
And really turning it into
something that's comprehensible,
also easy to use, well extended.
So I think, you know,
Evoke is a great plugin.
You want to talk more about some
of the motivations for making a
plugin versus another alternative?
>> Sure.
I'd be happy to.
So in our application at work for
ACI Learning, we have a web app
and it has a JSON API, which I
think is pretty typical these days.
And in order for that API to generate
and consume JSON, it uses a bunch of type
class instances for the Aeson library.
And those instances are
ToJSON and FromJSON.
And a couple more that we've thrown
into the mix recently are ToSchema,
which comes from the swagger2 library.
And arbitrary, which comes
from the QuickCheck library.
And we have these four instances.
And usually we define, if not all,
four of them, three out of four of
them, for a lot of our data types.
And we do this so that we can
emit JSON from our end points.
We can consume JSON from our end points.
And we can generate an API
specification that describes what
those end points either take or emit.
And then we can also generate arbitrary
values of those so that we can test
to make sure our encoders and decoders
actually match the specification.
So that's a quick overview of our
specific use case, the type classes we
are using, and why we're using them.
>> Right.
And I think to kind of, I guess share
some of, another big, big benefit,
which we'll cover more in detail later
is, using Evoke, keeps those four
instances you were speaking of in sync.
So you're not deriving one via something
else and deriving one via another thing.
We started to hit some hiccups with that.
And so that's another motivation for
this: the pains and headaches that
that could cause every once in a while.
>> That's absolutely right.
And I wanted to touch briefly on our
history, both here at work and for me
personally, when it comes to writing
or providing type class instances.
And I think it's pretty typical when you
start programming Haskell, and definitely
when I started programming in Haskell,
I usually wrote the instances by hand.
And this works fine if you don't
have that many instances to define,
you don't have that many types.
Or your instances don't need
to agree with each other.
But things get a little trickier
when you have a lot of types.
So for us at work, we have over
400 data types that we need
to derive these instances for.
We have more data types than that
in our code base overall, but
only a subset of them are affected
by this plugin that I wrote.
And also, like you mentioned,
we have to keep them in sync.
So if we have a FromJSON instance
and a ToJSON instance, those
need to agree with each other.
Usually.
Not always, but almost all the time.
And if we also have a [ToSchema] type
to generate the schema for it, that
needs to agree with the other two.
So writing them by hand gets really
tedious because then if you want to
make a simple change, like updating
one of the field names, you have
to update it in three places.
And remember to do that.
And usually, or I should say by
default, nothing will make sure that
all of them agree with each other.
You have to go write
a test for that thing.
Which isn't the end of the world,
but it would be nice if you
didn't have to do that, right?
>> Right.
That's a huge benefit right there.
There's so many touch points when
you derive things by hand, if you
make a simple change, that's twice as
many code changes as you were, three
times, or four times as many code
changes as you were intending to do.
And so letting it happen
automatically is great.
But there's still drawbacks to doing
it with Template Haskell or generics.
And so Evoke allows us to
still get great performance,
both runtime and compile time.
And also not have to think too much about,
oh, we're changing this data type we
got to make sure everything's in sync.
Obviously you don't want to be changing
data types willy nilly that requires
specific keys on the front end because
then you're gonna really have some issues.
Your front end team is going to hate you.
Unless you're, you've got
a strategic plan for that.
But, I think that's kind of the
thing for us that yes, it's dangerous
to extend the data type sometimes.
Especially if you change
an existing field.
But, at least in this case, you're
not worrying about from instance to
instance, is the type class going
to match the related type class.
>> And you always have to
worry about, if your type is part
of your API contract, changing that
type or changing its representation
could be a breaking change.
That's something that
you can't get around.
And Evoke, doesn't attempt to handle that.
It just makes it easier
to derive the instances.
But as you touched on, there
are other ways to automate this
instance definition problem.
And I would say in practice, it's pretty
unusual, especially for large teams,
to manually write all of the instances.
For some of the reasons
we've defined and just cause
it's a lot of boilerplate code.
It's not interesting to write.
So why bother writing it?
And I'm not claiming that Evoke
is the only, or even the best
way, to solve this problem.
And two of the others, very common
ways to write these instances.
The first is Template Haskell.
And Template Haskell is like
compile time meta programming.
Usually Haskell programmers I think
are introduced to it pretty quickly,
in their learning curve of Haskell.
And essentially what it does
is let you generate code at
compile time, which is great.
However, it has one major problem,
which is, GHC has this concept
of recompilation avoidance.
Which is if a file changes,
how do you know if that
file needs to be recompiled?
Or if any file that depends on
that one needs to be recompiled.
And I bring this up because with
Template Haskell, it has a big
problem, which is that anytime you
use Template Haskell in a module,
that will force it to be recompiled if
any of that modules dependencies, or
transitive dependencies, have changed.
So what that means is if I have a module
A and a module B, that depends on A.
And module B uses Template Haskell.
If I change module A module
B will always be recompiled.
And this is in contrast to the normal
recompilation avoidance where, GHC
will say, oh well A changed, but the
thing that changed isn't used in B,
so I don't need to recompile B.
That long-winded thing to say, Template
Haskell forces you to recompile more
often, and that is a drag on productivity.
And it means that if you make a change
deep in your module hierarchy, you're
going to have to recompile a lot of stuff.
And that's no fun.
>> Yeah.
I think that benefit alone is huge.
For those who, use Template Haskell and
experience that pain from day to day.
And I think another thing too,
that benefits here is that
it's easy to debug, right?
It's using the Haskell plugin
library that can tell you, okay,
this is what's happening here.
It's a well-documented library.
Obviously every once in a while,
there's some things you got to
figure out, but I think that allows
you to kind of pull off, the code
like you would normally write it.
Like it's not a different kind of,
lower level, deeper kind of programming.
It's writing Haskell.
It's just writing it in a specific way
and using all the functions provided.
>> Yeah.
And this is actually a benefit that is
shared a little bit with Template Haskell.
There are flags you can pass to GHC
that will convince it to output the
generated code from Template Haskell.
But usually that code isn't ready to be
like, copy pasted into your code base.
It's a little weird in
some strange, subtle ways.
But I mention this because with Evoke as
a GHC plugin, it generates source code
and you can pass a flag to Evoke and
it will tell it, not only generate the
source code and insert it into the source
tree, but print it out to standard out.
So that, you could use Evoke as a kind
of code generator to say, I'm going to
write out my type, and then I'm going to
tell Evoke to make the instance for me.
But I'm only going to
do that the first time.
I'm just going to copy-paste it
from Evoke's output and put it
into my source module, and then I
won't have to deal with it anymore.
And both of these approaches, the
Template Haskell one and the Evoke
one are in contrast to generics.
Because generics is the other
way to avoid manually writing
your instances with Haskell.
And it uses, [an] unsurprisingly
generic representation of your types.
And that generic representation only
has the concepts of products and sums.
Where a product type is like a
tuple and a sum type is like either.
So it takes whatever complicated data
type you have and crunches it down into
something that is tuples and eithers.
I bring all this context up because
you can't really convince GHC to
spit out what the instance would be
when you derive it with generics.
It all happens inside the compiler.
It's magic.
You can't really introspect
into that process.
So that's one of the
downsides of generics.
But bringing it back to what I was
talking about, the downside of Template
Haskell is that recompilation thing.
Generics does not have that problem.
Generics only recompiles when
necessary, rather than always.
But the downside for generics is that
when it does compile, it's usually slow.
Like really, really slow.
Especially in comparison to manual
instances or Template Haskell.
So you have this nice abstraction
that makes it easy to write generic
instances for a variety of type classes.
And doesn't cause things to recompile.
But it's slow.
And that's a bummer too.
>> Yeah.
We were going the route of generics
because of that compilation
issue for the Template Haskell.
And then we just realized how slow it
was and how much time we were spending
waiting on compilation to happen.
And obviously we can do the classic XKCD
where they're sword fighting because
they're waiting for the thing to compile.
And we could do that and that's
fine, but we'd rather not.
We have important things we're working on.
We're trying to create a product
that's cutting edge and ahead of its
time, but if you're sitting there
twiddling your thumbs half the time,
it's just no good.
I think that was another
huge motivating factor.
>> Absolutely, yeah.
And generics being slow
isn't necessarily a problem.
Obviously, if something compiles faster
and gives you the same result, it's going
to be better that it compile faster.
Like nobody wants things to be slow.
But with generics, yeah we were running
into the problem you were describing.
You would make some change and then
the project would need to be recompiled
either on your local dev machine, as
part of ghcid, let's say, or even in
our continuous integration service,
when it just rebuilds the whole project
anyway.
Both of those processes took longer
than it felt like they should because.
Generics is having to
generate all of this code.
And this generic
representation of our types.
In order to produce these instances.
And it's basically doing the same
work over and over again and adding
some overhead to those things.
So if we could have switched to Template
Haskell without having the performance
hit of recompilation checking, we
absolutely would have done that.
But that wasn't an option.
So that's why I looked into doing this
with a GHC plugin and that became Evoke.
>> And another nice benefit
too is there's no  language
extensions required for this.
But obviously you have
to use a plugin instead.
But that's a nice little thing.
I know there's always, when you have  to
enable a language extension to use a
library, it's always like, wait, why?
So I think that's a nice — kind of
says, okay hey this is a plugin this
is isolated to like — this is going
to run  as your code's compiling.
>> Like, right.
Yeah, and I actually want to expand
on that a little bit, because the
code that you write in order to get
Evoke to make the instance for you, it
definitely looks like it would require
at least one language extension.
Namely deriving via, cause it
has the deriving via Evoke.
Like that's how you use it.
But when Evoke runs, it actually
removes that clause from the source
file and replaces it with the actual
instance that you asked it to generate.
So the end result is that you don't
need that extension, even though
it kind of looks like you do.
But yeah, as a result, obviously
you have to enable the plugin
rather than an extension.
And you know, it's not that one is
better than the other, just that
it can be nice to not have to pile
on all these, you know, deriving
generic, generalized new type deriving.
Yada yada yada.
There's a lot of deriving extensions.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, we've got  GHC 2021, right?
With all those extensions,
we can just plop those in.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
No, that helps a little bit.
Um, sadly I don't think Evoke
will be part of GHC 2021.
>> Uh, well it's okay.
Um, well, you know, we talked
a lot about the benefits.
I have another question, but I think
we can kind of get to that later.
Can we touch first on some of the
drawbacks with Evoke and maybe some of
the gotchas and watch out fors, uh, if
anybody else is interested in using it?
>> I'd be happy to
talk about the drawbacks.
And in fact, like I said earlier,
I'm not claiming that this is the
best way to solve this problem,
but it has very real benefits for
us and that's why we're using it.
So the first drawback is really
fundamental and that's that
Evoke works syntactically.
It is a plugin for GHC and it only works
on the parsed module representation,
which means you can think of it
as like a source to source macro.
Where if it sees code that looks
like this, it'll replace it
with code that looks like that.
And this is simple, but that also
means it's not very powerful.
And in particular, this means that stuff
doesn't get renamed or type checked, and
that Evoke isn't dealing with the renamed
or type checked version of the code.
Which if you're not already familiar
with the GHC parser or compiler passes,
that may not mean anything to you.
What it means is, let's say you
define a type alias called optional
that is just a type alias for maybe.
Evoke has some special logic in
it, looking for the word maybe.
And it says, okay that's an optional
field, I'll treat it special.
If instead of using maybe you used
your type alias optional, evoke
wouldn't work properly for that.
It wouldn't do the same thing.
And that's the downside of
doing a syntactic plugin.
If instead it were working on the renamed
source, it would be able to find out
that, oh this was called optional, but
it is actually the same thing as maybe.
So I'm going to treat it the same.
So that's one big downside, and
as I currently see it, there's
not really a way around it.
Evoke could conceivably work on
the renamed or the type checked
version of the source code.
But  it seems like that would be
a lot more challenging to pull
off inside the plugin ecosystem
than this syntactic approach.
>> Yeah.
And like you said, that being
not dealing with the type system
really it's all syntactical it's
very easy to possibly use it wrong.
Or expect some behavior and
not actually get that behavior.
Uh, so yeah.
Yeah.
Just, just be aware of that.
Uh, I think that's the biggest gotcha.
In my opinion, um, you know, it's also
very, you know, it's coupled to GHC pretty
closely because it's in the GHC plugin
ecosystem and the parsed module system.
Could you, for those who don't know, cause
I didn't know when we started talking
about this idea, talk a quick, like just
a brief, like, hey here's the stages of
the GHC parser at least the first couple.
>> Yeah.
And a caveat upfront.
Maybe I get some of these wrong,
but this is all off memory.
So when you tell GHC to parse a
Haskell module, it goes through
a bunch of different phases.
And I think the order of the phases is
that you start with Literate Haskell
and turning that into regular Haskell.
That process is called delit.
And then you take that Haskell file
and you run the C preprocessor on it.
If you have that language
extension enabled.
And then you have like your
actual input source file.
So you lex and parse that, which
happen as effectively one step.
And then after you have parsed
the module,  this is where plugins
can start getting into the mix.
But after parsing you have renaming,
which is essentially, chasing
down imports and saying, this name
is really that name, resolving
type aliases, that kind of thing.
And then you have one of the more
heavyweight phases, which is type checking
to make sure that all of these expressions
make sense and pass the type checker.
And then after that you get more into
the realm of stuff that I haven't really
looked into, which is, generating for
instance, the C minus minus code or
the LLVM intermediate representation
or, you know, whatever the commonly
called the backend of the compiler.
So actually like generating the
machine code from the Haskell code.
So that's a very brief
overview of the phases.
And as I mentioned, Evoke happens
after parsing and before renaming.
So that's pretty early in the process.
And as you mentioned, it is very
tightly coupled to GHC because the way
that you implement a GHC plugin is to —
it basically is a function where
you get the parsed module and
you return a new parsed module.
And that's what it does.
So that means that it has to care a lot
about what that parsed module looks like.
And this isn't a problem
for users of Evoke.
It's really a problem for me or anyone who
may eventually be a maintainer of Evoke.
Because it means you have to
code against that representation.
And supporting multiple versions of it at
the same time can be problematic if things
change or get moved around or whatever.
As users of this library, hopefully
you don't need to care about that.
It's really just me and it makes it
a little more challenging to support.
>> Thanks for still being
there to support it though, you
know, that's the important part.
You're there to support it and
hold it and help it grow up to
be, um, I mean what, it's Evoke.
What's the next evolution of Evoke?
>> Evo-evoke?
Yeah, I don't know.
>> Yeah.
Well, uh, anyways, that's, that's cool.
Any other drawbacks that
you wanted to touch on?
I mean, I know there's some in the
post, which, you know, we have.
There's a blog post, there's a Twitter
announcement, there's all kind of stuff.
If you have more questions
about Evoke or you want to take
a look at what it's all about.
There's those options, but  I just want
to touch on one more drawback and then
maybe go into some of the real cool
things which are related to performance.
>> Sure.
I already mentioned one of the
drawbacks, which was that it's really
dependent on the actual name of things.
So like maybe is different than
optional or even a qualified maybe.
But another, actually kind of two
of the same type of problem, is that
it only supports particular types
as input and it can only produce
certain type classes as output.
And this is in comparison to
Template Haskell and generics.
So with Template Haskell, the
representation of data types is a little
simpler than what GHC has cause Template
Haskell keeps track of less information.
So it is easier to support
more different kinds of types.
And specifically what I mean here is
like Evoke does not support GADTs.
You have to have a quote unquote
normal data type, a record, that has
one constructor and a bunch of fields.
That's pretty much the only
data type that Evoke supports.
There's no actual technical
limitation for why it's this way.
It's just, I'm lazy and that's the only
one I have bothered to implement so far.
Yeah.
Oh, go ahead.
>> I was just going to say
for us, like, you know, Evoke
is pretty specialized to our use
case, but we do think other people
would be able to get use out of it.
And therefore that's why we
kind of went public with it.
So, uh, all of the things we're talking
about, like these are pains we have
thought about, but we've accepted the fact
that, you know, this is how it is because
it's something we made for us at ITProTV.
>> Absolutely.
And as I mentioned, we have over
400 data types that can use Evoke.
So we have that many data types
that are just one constructor
with a bunch of fields.
It's a super common
pattern for our code base.
And the other side of the coin
here is that I've only mentioned
four type classes, and those are
the only four that Evoke supports.
And this is kind of in contrast to
like generics where if you want to,
within your own library, like Aeson or
QuickCheck or whatever, have a generic,
implementation of the type classes that
your library defines, you can do that.
But with Evoke, any type class that it
wants to support has to be supported
in the library or the plugin itself.
And this is a little less onerous than
it may sound because Evoke doesn't
actually need to depend on, say,
aeson in order to implement Aeson.
Cause it's just generating source code.
It doesn't really need the library itself.
But it means that Aeson can't
write that generic implementation.
I have to write it inside of Evoke.
Which means that it probably
won't ever have support for every
type class you're going to want.
But as you mentioned, this was super
useful for us and I wanted to get it
out there as kind of a proof of concept.
Cause I hadn't seen anyone do this
before and maybe someone will come along
and be like, oh I have a much better
idea for how to implement this plugin.
Please do that.
Please let me know.
I'm not convinced this is like the
greatest way to implement this thing.
Just that it works.
And yeah, maybe other people will
fork this and make their own version
for their internal tooling that
supports different type classes.
That would be a huge win in my opinion.
I'd be very happy with that outcome.
>> As promised, we're
going to get to some of the fun
stuff related to performance.
I guess the big question
is: how fast is it?
You know, we did all this because
we've had slow compile times.
Like what was, what was the increase?
What was better?
What are the numbers?
>> Yeah, in my opinion, it
is about as fast as you can get,
because the only way to be any faster
would be to write the code manually.
Then it would be faster
to compile and to run.
But it would be a lot slower to write.
So in this case, it's fast to write,
fast to compile, and fast to run.
And what do I mean by all that?
So I did some benchmarks with our
repository or our code base when I
switched everything over to using Evoke.
All those 400 some odd types.
And I would recommend anyone
go look at the blog post or the
repo to see the exact numbers.
But just focusing on one measurement,
which was compiling the entire code base
with optimizations only using one core.
So forcing it to compile
one module at a time.
With generic driving for all of these
types, it took about 920 seconds.
Which is  like 15 minutes, let's say.
With Evoke rather than generic
driving, it took about 750 seconds.
Which is, 12 minutes, maybe 13.
So that's three minutes of wall
clock time that we saved just by
moving away from generic deriving.
And obviously this is not a completely
realistic benchmark because almost
all of the time, we're compiling
with multiple cores to compile
multiple modules at the same time.
But I wanted to see, you know, what's
the overall impact of this approach.
So that comes out to
being about 20% faster.
So if you have a lot of data types in your
code base, and you would like to compile
it 20% faster, consider using Evoke.
>> The shameless plug, I love it.
Awesome, yeah.
If you have more questions
about the numbers,
like Taylor said, check the
blog post out or the repository.
So what's it take to
get set up using Evoke?
Like what's that look like?
>> It's pretty easy.
I had one more comment on performance
before we move on, which is
that the runtime performance.
I don't have hard numbers for this because
it's very challenging to say like, this
type class instance is X percent faster
than that type class instance when
you're  comparing generics versus say,
Template Haskell or Evoke in this case.
And I wasn't super interested in
writing a micro benchmark like that.
But what I did instead was: we deployed
this and then two weeks later I went
back and looked at our metrics for how
quickly are we responding to requests?
How much RAM are we using and
how much CPU are we using?
And I don't have any hard
numbers to give you from that.
But the overall result was that we were
responding a little bit quicker and also
more consistently fast, meaning we didn't
have big outliers that were very slow.
And we used less RAM.
And we had a lower average CPU usage.
All of these things were not like
slam dunk, man, we killed it, this
is so much faster than generics,
but it definitely was faster.
So it's not only faster to compile for us.
It's also faster to run, which is awesome.
>> I think that's a big win.
You know, even though we can't
easily get those numbers for the
difference in CPU and  memory usage.
It was the — seeing the graphs was really
cool.
I was like, oh, okay.
Like something changed here.
And that was using Evoke over generics.
>> Yeah.
I wish I could share the graphs,
but it's like our internal metrics.
So you'll just have to
take my word for it.
I'm sorry.
I'll uh, maybe get a synthetic
benchmark one of these days.
But Cameron, you asked
about how do you install?
How do you use this thing?
So to install it, you add it as
a package, just like anything
else that you depend on.
So in your build depends of your,
Cabal package description or
package.yaml or whatever you use,
just add Evoke to your dependencies.
It is published on Hackage right now.
And I'll probably fix it
up to be like more normal.
Go through a CI process and
automate publishing and all that.
But for right now it's all very manual.
And then to actually use it —  I
have used plugins in the past.
So I was already kind of familiar
with this process, but I get the
feeling most people that use GHC
probably don't use a lot of plugins.
And the way that you enable them is
through a pragma in the source file,
which is OPTIONS_GHC, which maybe people
are familiar with because you can use
it to enable or disable warnings or
optimizations or various other compiler
flags from within a source file.
And you pass in this flag called -Fplugin.
And then you pass in to that,
the option is the name of the
module that defines the plugin.
So it's Evoke with the capital E.
It's pretty tedious to put this pragma
on every source file where you want it.
So you can also set it in
your package description.
So right alongside where you
add the dependency on Evoke.
You can tell GHC, hey whenever
you compile anything in this
package, use the Evoke plugin.
So that's the way I
would recommend to do it.
In particular, because running Evoke on
a module where it doesn't generate any
instances is basically instantaneous.
It just walks over the module
to guarantee, or to check, is
there anything for me to do?
Nope.
All right.
Well then carry on.
So I strongly recommend setting
it in your package description.
>> Yep.
And then you mentioned this earlier,
too, about what it looks like
to derive something via Evoke.
And it looks like you would need
the language extension driving via.
But I mean, cause it looks
like derive ToJSON via Evoke.
But there is something special
about this, um, how we've
named it and how it's written.
Uh, can you kind of share a little
bit about that and, and how it
relates to maybe some of the
drawbacks we talked about earlier?
>> Absolutely.
So the way that you tell Evoke you
wanted to make some type class is,
like you just said, using deriving via.
And normally when you do deriving via
you provide some type name as sort
of like the argument to via, right.
You say derive this type
class via some other type.
And I kind of hijacked that syntax
for Evoke and I went back and
forth on what it should look like.
Should it use something that
looks like a type capital E Evoke.
Should it use something that looks
like a  type variable lowercase E
Evoke, or should it do something weird?
And ultimately I decided
on the weird approach.
So what you have to pass is a string
with Evoke as the first word in it.
And I decided to go with a string because
it turns out when you have a record that
has one constructor and a bunch of fields,
and you're generating JSON instances.
Often you want to
change the names of those fields in some
way, when you generate the instance.
So for instance, it's very common
to have all of the field names
prefixed with the type name.
So if you had a type called person, you
may have a field called person name.
And that's for the Haskell side, but then
when you generate the JSON you want it
to just say name rather than person name.
So I was puzzling over,
how can I pass this?
How can you express this to Evoke so
that it generates the correct instance?
And what I landed on was you call Evoke
within this string and you sort of
pass it command line arguments like you
would if it was a command line program.
And so you would say, you know,
strip the prefix person off of this
and then turn it into camel case.
So that's why it's a string.
Another reason I went with a string
is that it means you're not going
to accidentally collide with — if
you happen to have a type in
your code base called Evoke, this
isn't going to overlap with that.
And it makes it really clear that
something weird is going on because
how can you derive a type class
via some static type level string?
It doesn't really make any sense.
So that should, um, that's
why I decided to go with that.
>> Yeah.
It kind of waves a flag like, hey this is
different than how you normally do this.
Um, yeah.
And like you said, you have
options too, which is great.
Uh, that you can kind of change the
JSON format, however you choose.
Um, yeah.
>> And if people have used — right.
If people have used the generic deriving
or the Template Haskell deriving in Aeson,
the options should be pretty similar.
Where it's like, hey this is
how you change a field name
when you generate the instance.
>> Yeah.
And then, uh, you had talked about earlier
about being able to output the — what
Evoke would generate, um, and any, you
seem to use a plugin option for that,
um, with the, verbose flag, correct?
>> Yeah.
So when GHC calls your plugin, it calls it
like a command line application, and that
means that you can pass options to it.
And one of the options that
Evoke accepts is verbose.
And what that does is whenever it
generates a type class instance, before
it shoves that back into the source
file for GHC to continue processing,
it will print it out to standard out.
And this is useful for two reasons.
One is to just debug it, like if
something goes wrong and you want to
submit a bug report to Evoke, that'd
be really useful for me to see that.
Or if you're just curious, What
does the instance look like?
You can find out pretty quickly.
And then the other non debug approaches
that if you want to use Evoke solely as
a code generator, then you can tell it,
hey generate the instance and print it out
and then I'll copy it and paste it myself.
And then I won't end up
calling Evoke anymore.
So if you want to write manual instances,
but you want something else to do the
code generation for you the first time
around, that's a reasonable approach.
>> To end the blog post, you
have, some of the examples are of
what the code generation look like.
And you know, it's hard to talk about
code in a post or in a conversation like
this, but it's easy to see in a post.
So go check it out if
you have any interest.
Um, but yeah, Taylor, great job
figuring out that we had this
issue and finding the solution.
Um, you know, like, yes, it's very
specialized to us, but it is really
cool to kind of attack a very common
problem in Haskell and a different
approach than what we've seen.
Um, you know, cause everybody generally
bites the bullet, whether it's slower
compile times with generics or constant
recompilation with Template Haskell.
But this kind of circumvents both.
And kind of opens up a new avenue for
others who may feel the tensions of using
these other libraries and kind of see
if they can make Evoke work for them.
So I think that's, uh, that's pretty cool.
Um, I think it's a big
win for the community.
Big win for just, I mean,
any level of Haskeller.
It's you know, obviously a little magic.
If you're brand new to Haskell,
you're like, wait, what, why are we
deriving, you know, but you'll generally
have team members or someone around
you who you can talk to, or if you
don't have anyone to talk to and you
have questions, reach out to Taylor
on Twitter, he's smarter than me.
Um.
>> Well I don't know about that.
And yeah, one thing that we didn't
talk about here is like, how
is this thing even implemented?
And, if you're familiar with GHC plugins,
it's hopefully not too surprising.
If you're not familiar with them,
it can be a little mysterious.
But I tried to document the code and
make it really clear what it's doing.
So if you are curious how it works and
maybe you wanna write your own or change
how this one works, I would encourage
you to go read the source of Evoke
because I tried to make it approachable.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
I would say you did a good job.
Um, thanks.
I want to thank all of our
listeners today for checking us out.
And, um, if you have any questions
or concerns, feel free to
reach out to us at, on Twitter.
Um, we are readily ready for your input.
Um, we care about our listeners
and we care about what you think.
So please, please, please.
If you have any questions or
curiosities never hesitate to reach out.
>> Yeah.
And our Twitter handle is Haskell Weekly,
as you might expect, if you want
to learn more about the show or the
newsletter, please check out our
website, which is HaskellWeekly.News.
>> Yep.
And Haskell Weekly podcast is brought to
you by ITProTV, an ACI Learning company.
Um, we would like to offer you 30%
off the lifetime subscription with the
promo code HaskellWeekly30 at checkout.
So that's all capitalized, question mark?
>> I don't know.
I don't think it matters.
Yeah.
>> I don't think it matters, but,
uh, you know, that would give you 30% off
of an entire library full of IT content.
Um, we have some development
stuff, but no Haskell stuff yet.
So, uh, stay tuned for that
as well, but, uh, yeah.
Thank you guys for listening and.
we'll see you guys next week.